>> Sreenivasan: ON THIS EDITION
FOR SUNDAY, DECEMBER 20:
A CRITICAL PROVINCE IN
AFGHANISTAN MAY BE ON THE VERGE
OF FALLING TO THE TALIBAN.
FACT-CHECKING LAST NIGHT'S
DEMOCRATIC DEBATE.
AND, HOW THE 2016 CAMPAIGNS ARE
USING VAST AMOUNTS OF DATA TO
IDENTIFY AND TARGET INDIVIDUAL
VOTERS.
NEXT ON PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
>>FROM THE TISCH WNET STUDIOS
AT LINCOLN CENTER IN NEW YORK,
HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: GOOD EVENING AND
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
A KEY REGION IN AFGHANISTAN
COULD BE ON THE VERGE OF FALLING
TO THE TALIBAN.
THE DEPUTY GOVERNOR OF HELMAND
PROVINCE, AN AREA THAT U.S.
TROOPS ONCE FOUGHT TO SECURE,
SAYS URGENT ACTION IS NEEDED TO
PREVENT ITS COLLAPSE.
THE OFFICIAL POSTED AN UNUSUAL
PUBLIC PLEA TO AFGHAN PRESIDENT
ASHRAF GHANI ON FACEBOOK SAYING,
QUOTE: "HELMAND IS STANDING ON
THE BRINK, AND THERE IS A
SERIOUS NEED FOR YOU TO COME."
THE HELMAND OFFICIAL SAID HE HAD
LOST 90 SOLDIERS IN THE PAST TWO
DAYS AND HUNDREDS MORE DURING
SIX MONTHS OF TALIBAN ATTACKS.
A SPOKESMAN FOR PRESIDENT GHANI
SAID THE PRESIDENT IS AWARE OF
THE FACEBOOK POST AND MET WITH
HIS NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL
ABOUT THE SITUATION.
AN AFGHAN ARMY SPOKESMAN SAID
HELMAND WOULD NEVER COLLAPSE.
AIR FRANCE SAYS A BOMB SCARE
THAT FORCED A PASSENGER JET TO
MAKE AN EMERGENCY LANDING IN
KENYA TODAY WAS A FALSE ALARM.
THE PLANE WAS EN ROUTE FROM THE
INDIAN OCEAN ISLAND OF MAURITIUS
TO PARIS WHEN A PASSENGER
REPORTED A SUSPICIOUS DEVICE IN
A BATHROOM.
AFTER THE BOEING 777 LANDED
SAFELY IN MOMBASA, ALL 459
PASSENGERS AND 14 CREW MEMBERS
WERE EVACUATED AND SCREENED BY
INVESTIGATORS.
AIR FRANCE'S C.E.O. SAYS THE
DEVICE, MADE OF A CARDBOARD BOX
AND A TIMER, DID NOT CONTAIN
EXPLOSIVES AND WAS A HOAX.
INDONESIA HAS ARRESTED 10 MEN
ACCUSED OF PLOTTING TERRORIST
ATTACKS AROUND CHRISTMAS AND NEW
YEAR'S DAY.
POLICE SAY THEY REMOVED BOMB-
MAKING MATERIALS, WEAPONS, AND
TRAINING MANUALS FROM THEIR
RESIDENCES.
THE SUSPECTS ALLEGEDLY PLANNED A
SUICIDE BOMBING IN INDONESIA'S
CAPITAL OF JAKARTA AND ATTACKS
ON INDONESIA'S MINORITY SHIA
MUSLIM COMMUNITIES.
POLICE SAY FOUR SUSPECTS
BELONGED TO JEMAAH ISLAMIYAH,
THE SUNNI MUSLIM EXTREMIST GROUP
LINKED TO AL QAEDA, WHICH KILLED
200 PEOPLE IN THE 2002 BOMBING
OF A NIGHTCLUB IN A BALI,
INDONESIA.
LAST NIGHT, THE THREE MAJOR
CONTENDERS FOR THE DEMOCRATIC
PARTY'S PRESIDENTIAL NOMINATION
IN 2016 SHARED THE DEBATE STAGE
FOR THE THIRD AND FINAL TIME
THIS YEAR.
THE DEBATE TOOK PLACE IN NEW
HAMPSHIRE, WHICH HOLDS THE
NATION'S FIRST PRIMARY, IN
FEBRUARY.
RIGHT OFF THE BAT, THE
CANDIDATES DISPENSED WITH A
RECENT CONTROVERSY, WHEN VERMONT
SENATOR BERNIE SANDERS TOOK
RESPONSIBILITY FOR HIS STAFF
ACCESSING A DEMOCRATIC PARTY
DATABASE TO COPY INFORMATION
ABOUT SUPPORTERS OF THE FORMER
SECRETARY OF STATE.
>> YES, I APOLOGIZE.
NOT ONLY DO I APOLOGIZE TO
SECRETARY CLINTON AND I HOPE WE
CAN WORK ON AN INDEPENDENT
INVESTIGATION.
>> Sreenivasan: THE CANDIDATES
WERE PRESSED ON DOMESTIC ISSUES
LIKE HEALTH CARE AND EDUCATION,
BUT LIKE THEIR LAST DEBATE,
FOREIGN POLICY DOMINATED.
SANDERS SAID, UNLIKE CLINTON
WHEN SHE WAS IN THE SENATE, HE
VOTED AGAINST THE 2003 U.S.
INVASION OF IRAQ, AND THAT HE IS
AGAINST DEPLOYING U.S. GROUND
TROOPS IN SYRIA.
>> I DO NOT BELIEVE IN
UNILATERAL AMERICAN ACTION.
THE TROOPS ON THE GROUND SHOULD
NOT BE AMERICAN TROOPS.
THEY SHOULD BE MUSLIM TROOPS.
I BELIEVE THAT COUNTRIES LIKE
SAUDI ARABIA AND QATAR HAVE GOT
TO STEP UP TO THE PLATE.
>> Sreenivasan: FORMER MARYLAND
GOVERNOR MARTIN O'MALLEY AGREED
THE U.S. SHOULD SHOW RESTRAINT
WITH SYRIA'S PRESIDENT.
>> WE SHOULDN'T BE THE ONES
DECLARING THAT ASSAD MUST GO.
WE HAVE A ROLE TO PLAY IN THIS
WORLD.
BUT IT IS NOT THE WORLD-- THE
ROLE OF TRAVELING THE WORLD
LOOKING FOR NEW MONSTERS TO
DESTROY.
>> Sreenivasan: CLINTON SAID
SANDERS HAD SUPPORTED THE U.S.
JOINING THE COALITION THAT
CAUSED REGIME CHANGE IN LIBYA
IN 2011.
>> YOU JOINED THE SENATE IN
VOTING TO GET RID OF QADHAFI.
>> Sreenivasan: SHE ALSO
LAMBASTED THE CANDIDATE LEADING
REPUBLICAN OPINION POLLS, DONALD
TRUMP, FOR HIS SUGGESTION THAT
BANNING MUSLIMS FROM ENTERING
THE U.S. COULD STOP TERRORISM.
>> MR. TRUMP HAS A GREAT
CAPACITY TO USE BLUSTER AND
BIGOTRY TO INFLAME PEOPLE AND TO
MAKE THEM THINK THERE ARE EASY
ANSWERS TO VERY COMPLEX
QUESTIONS.
>> Sreenivasan: CLINTON ALSO
SAID REPUBLICAN CALLS FOR
CLOSING THE DOOR ON SYRIAN
REFUGEES ARE WRONG.
>> I DON'T THINK A HALT IS
NECESSARY.
WE NEED TO HAVE AN INCREASED
VETTING AND SCREENING.
>> Sreenivasan: JOINING ME NOW
FROM WASHINGTON FOR FURTHER
ANALYSIS OF THE DEBATE IS JON
GREENBERG FROM "POLITIFACT."
JON, DURING THE DISCUSSION ON
TERRORISM AND THE ISLAMIC STATE
GROUP, HILLARY CLINTON MADE A
STATEMENT ABOUT THE IMPACT OF
DONALD TRUMP'S IDEA TO BAN
MUSLIMS FROM ENTERING THE U.S.
>> HE IS BECOMING ISIS' BEST
RECRUITER.
THEY ARE GOING TO PEOPLE SHOWING
VIDEOS OF DONALD TRUMP INSULTING
ISLAM AND MUSLIMS IN ORDER TO
RECRUIT MORE RADICAL JIHADISTS.
>> Sreenivasan: ANY TRUTH TO
THAT?
>> WELL, I THINK THE ISSUE HERE
IS THAT HILLARY CLINTON SAID
THERE WAS A VIDEO BEING
PRODUCED.
AND THE PROBLEM IS NOT THE
CLINTON CAMPAIGN NOR ANYBODY
ELSE CAN POINT TO A VIDEO.
SO THERE WAS AN ARTICLE THAT THE
CLINTON CAMPAIGN TALKED ABOUT
WHICH HAD SOME PEOPLE SAYING
THAT ISIS WAS REFERRING TO
DONALD TRUMP, BUT NO MENTION OF
A VIDEO.
THE PEOPLE WHO REALLY DO TRACK
THIS STUFF SAY IF DONALD TRUMP
HAD SHOWN UP IN AN ISIS VIDEO,
LOTS OF PEOPLE WOULD BE TALKING
ABOUT IT.
AND NOBODY WAS TALKING ABOUT IT.
SO IN THE ABSENCE OF EVIDENCE,
WE REALLY HAVE NO CHOICE BUT TO
SAY THIS IS FALSE.
>> Sreenivasan: OKAY.
IN THE Q AND A OVER GUN CONTROL
MARYLAND GOVERNOR MARTIN
O'MALLEY ACCUSED MRS. CLINTON OF
FLIP FLOPPING.
>> SECRETARY CLINTON CHANGES HER
POSITION ON THIS EVERY ELECTION
YEAR, IT SEEMS, HAVING ONE
POSITION IN 2 THOUSAND AND THEN
CAMPAIGNING AGAINST PRESIDENT
OBAMA AND SAYING WE DON'T NEED
FEDERAL STANDARDS.
>> Sreenivasan: NOW SHE SAID
THAT'S NOT TRUE, WHO IS RIGHT
HERE?
>> TO BE PRECISE, IN 2 THOUSAND
SHE WAS PUSHING HARD AND SHE WAS
TALKING ABOUT HAVING PHOTO
IDENTIFICATION LICENSES FOR ALL
GUN OWNERS.
AND THEN IN 2008, SHE BACKED OFF
AND SAID NO, WE DON'T NEED THAT
KIND OF LICENSING.
HOWEVER, THE IMPORTANT THING IS
YOU GOT TO KEY IN ON O'MALLEY
SAYING NO FEDERAL STANDARDS.
CLINTON HAS NEVER BACKED WAY
FROM HAVING FEDERAL STANDARDS.
SO THAT PART OF HIS CLAIM IS
INACCURATE.
BUT YOU CAN FIND THAT HILLARY
CLINTON HAS SHIFTED HER POSITION
A BIT ON GUN CONTROL OVER THE
YEARS.
>> Sreenivasan: FINALLY
SENATOR SANDERS WHO ADVOCATES
MEDICARE FOR EVERYBODY SAID A
SINGLE PAY HEALTH-CARE SYSTEM
WOULD REDUCE U.S. HEALTHCARE
SPENDING.
HERE'S THAT.
>> WHY IS IT THAT WE SPEND
ALMOST THREE TIMES PER CAPITA AS
TO WHAT THEY SPEND IN THE U.K.,
50% MORE THAN WHAT THEY PAY IN
FRANCE, COUNTRIES THAT GUARANTEE
HEALTH CARE TO ALL OF THEIR
PEOPLE.
>> Sreenivasan: IT FEELS LIKE
WE'RE BACK A FEW YEARS AGO
DEBATING THE AFFORDABLE CARE
ACT.
BUT IS HE RIGHT?
>> WELL, WE DON'T KNOW WHETHER
OR NOT HAVING A SINGLE PAYER
SYSTEM WOULD NECESSARILY REDUCE
HEALTH CARE EXPENDITURES HERE IN
THE UNITED STATES.
AND WE'RE NOT THE IN PREDICTION
BUSINESS.
ON THE OTHER HAND, WHAT WE CAN
FACT CHECK IS HIS BASIC MATH AND
THE NUMBERS THERE ARE VERY
CLEAR.
IN THE UNITED KINGDOM WE'RE
LOOKING AT ABOUT PER CAPITA 3200
U.S. DOLLARS PER PERSON, AND
THEN IN FRANCE, IT'S ABOUT
$4100.
WHEREAS THE UNITED STATES IS AT
$8,700.
SO IF IF YOU DO THE MATH, BERNIE
SANDERS IS CORRECT, THEN THAT'S
WHAT WE DID.
SO WE GAVE HIM A TRUE.
>> Sreenivasan: ALL RIGHT, JON
GREENBERG THANKS SO MUCH.
>> MY PLEASURE
>> Sreenivasan: DATABASES, LIKE
THE ONE SANDERS AND CLINTON USE
FROM THE DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL
COMMITTEE, ARE A CRITICAL TOOL
FOR MODERN PRESIDENTIAL
CAMPAIGNS.
THEY CONTAIN VOTER NAMES,
ADDRESSES, AND VOTING HISTORIES,
AS WELL AS DATA ABOUT YOU THAT
CAN BE BOUGHT, FOR EXAMPLE,
ABOUT WHERE YOU SHOP.
CAMPAIGNS ANALYZE THIS
INFORMATION TO FIND POTENTIAL
SUPPORTERS AND TARGET THEM TO
TURN OUT ON ELECTION DAY.
IN TONIGHT'S SIGNATURE SEGMENT,
NEWSHOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT
JEFF GREENFIELD EXPLAINS HOW
THIS WORKS.
>> Reporter: IT HAS BEEN THE
CORE OF POLITICAL COMMUNICATION.
SPEAKING TO THE MULTITUDES, BY
ANY AND ALL METHODS: THE STREET
CORNER RALLY; THE LEAFLETS, THE
RADIO SPEECHES.
>> THIS GENERATION OF AMERICANS
HAS A RENDEZVOUS WITH DESTINY!
>> Reporter: THE TV ADS.
>> IT'S MORNING, AGAIN, IN
AMERICA!
>> Reporter: BUT IN RECENT
YEARS, TECHNOLOGY, IN THE FORM
OF DATA-CRUNCHING COMPUTERS, HAS
UPENDED JUST ABOUT EVERY
TRADITIONAL NOTION ABOUT HOW TO
REACH VOTERS, HOW DO YOU TALK TO
THEM, AND HOW TO PERSUADE THEM
TO VOTE.
INDEED, MODERN CAMPAIGNS MORE
AND MORE ARE TAKING THE MASS OUT
OF MASS COMMUNICATIONS, CHOOSING
INSTEAD TO TARGET VOTERS ONE AT
A TIME.
IT'S CALLED "MICRO-TARGETING."
AND IT'S SOMETHING ALMOST
EVERYONE WITH A COMPUTER OR
SMARTPHONE EXPERIENCES.
COMPANIES SEND YOU E-MAIL
PITCHES BASED ON WHAT YOU'VE
BOUGHT FROM THEM; AMAZON KNOWS
WHAT BOOKS TO RECOMMEND BASED ON
THE BOOKS YOU'VE ALREADY BOUGHT;
YOUR NEIGHBOR WITH DIFFERENT
TASTES GETS A COMPLETELY
DIFFERENT LIST.
IT'S WHY YOUR COMPUTER LOOKING
AT THE SAME WEBSITE WILL HAVE
DIFFERENT ADS FROM THOSE OF YOUR
NEIGHBOR, BASED ON THE DIGITAL
TRAILS YOU'VE LEFT.
WHAT'S HAPPENED IN THE LAST
DECADE-AND-A-HALF IS THAT THE
TOOLS OF CONSUMER MARKETING--
THE ABILITY TO GATHER AND
INTERPRET ENORMOUS AMOUNTS OF
DATA IN ORDER TO KNOW MORE ABOUT
INDIVIDUALS-- HAVE BEEN ADAPTED
AND REFINED BY POLITICAL
CAMPAIGNS.
>> I THINK WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
USING THE REAMS OF AVAILABLE NEW
DATA AND STATISTICAL MODELING
TOOLS TO FIND NEW WAYS TO
SEGMENT THE ELECTORATE.
>> Reporter: SASHA ISSENBERG
LITERALLY WROTE THE BOOK, "THE
VICTORY LAB," ON THE ARRIVAL OF
SO-CALLED ANALYTICS.
>> WHAT ANALYTICS IS DOING IS
COLLECTING THE HUNDREDS, IF NOT
THOUSANDS, OF A VARIABLES THAT
ARE AVAILABLE ABOUT EVERY ADULT
IN THE UNITED STATES, AND
LOOKING FOR PATTERNS THAT ARE
LESS VISIBLE TO THE NAKED EYE,
AND SAYING, "OKAY, CAN WE COME
UP WITH A BETTER LIKELIHOOD OF
ASSUMING SOMEBODY'S PROPENSITY
TO BE A DEMOCRAT, OR TO VOTE IN
A PRIMARY, OR TO TURN OUT TO
VOTE AT ALL?"
>> Reporter: IT'S HAPPENING
ACROSS THE POLITICAL LANDSCAPE,
LEFT AND RIGHT.
MONTHS BEFORE DEMOCRAT HILLARY
CLINTON ANNOUNCED FOR PRESIDENT,
A PRO-CLINTON SUPER PAC, "READY
FOR HILLARY," WAS GATHERING DATA
ON SOCIAL MEDIA LIKE FACEBOOK TO
FIND AND TARGET POTENTIAL
SUPPORTERS.
REPUBLICAN SENATOR TED CRUZ HAS
EXPLICITLY ACKNOWLEDGED HIS
CAMPAIGN IS VERY MUCH A DATA-
DRIVEN, GRASSROOTS-DRIVEN
CAMPAIGN.
IT AND ALLIED SUPER PACS HAVE
ALREADY SPENT MILLIONS OF
DOLLARS SEARCHING FACEBOOK AND
OTHER SITES TO FIND LIKELY CRUZ
VOTERS.
AND ACCORDING TO "THE WASHINGTON
POST," THE CRUZ CAMPAIGN
EXPLICITLY CREDITS ITS USE OF
ANALYTICS TO THE SENATOR'S
RECENT RISE IN THE POLLS.
SO, HOW DOES MICRO-TARGETING
WORK?
IT ALL STARTS WITH THE VOTER
FILE, PUBLIC INFORMATION ABOUT
WHERE YOU LIVE, WHETHER YOU'RE A
REGISTERED PARTY MEMBER, AND
WHETHER YOU'VE VOTED IN
PRIMARIES AND GENERAL ELECTIONS,
AND THEN TAKING IT ONE STEP
FURTHER.
>> EVERY MAGAZINE SUBSCRIPTION
THAT YOU'VE HAD, IF YOU'RE ON
MAILING LISTS FROM CATALOGS.
A LOT OF STATES HAVE THEIR
HUNTING LICENSES, OR GUN
PERMITS ARE AVAILABLE.
>> Reporter: AND HERE'S THE KEY:
THANKS TO COMPUTING POWER,
CAMPAIGNS CAN LOOK AT TRAITS
THAT ARE COMMON TO THEIR
SUPPORTERS: PEOPLE WHO'VE
DONATED OR VOLUNTEERED.
BY FINDING OTHER PEOPLE WITH
THOSE SAME TRAITS, THEY ARE
LIKELY TO FIND MORE SUPPORTERS.
THAT'S WHAT PRESIDENT GEORGE W.
BUSH'S RE-ELECTION CAMPAIGN DID
IN 2004, WHEN IT LOOKED FOR
SUPPORTERS IN HEAVILY DEMOCRATIC
DISTRICTS IN THE KEY SWING STATE
OF OHIO.
IN EARLIER TIMES, THIS WOULD
HAVE BEEN FUTILE; BUT NOW THE
BUSH CAMPAIGN COULD FIND
SUPPORTERS SCATTERED THROUGHOUT
HOSTILE TERRITORY, KIND OF LIKE
FINDING RAISINS IN A BOWL OF
RAISIN BRAN.
>> AND SO, THE BUSH CAMPAIGN AND
THE REPUBLICAN NATIONAL
COMMITTEE MADE A CONCERTED
EFFORT BETWEEN GEORGE BUSH'S
ELECTION IN 2000 AND HIS RE-
ELECTION IN 2004 TO BUILD THE
INFRASTRUCTURE TO MAKE THIS WORK
IN POLITICS.
AND ONE OF THEIR BIG THINGS WAS
SAYING, "YEAH, LET'S, LET'S
FIGURE WE KNOW THAT EVEN IN
THE...THE LEAST REPUBLICAN
COUNTY IN AMERICA, 15%, 20% OF
THE VOTES ARE...ARE OURS.
AND I, IF WE KNOW HOW TO GO FIND
THOSE PEOPLE, WE CAN BE TARGETED
AND LOWER THE RISK OF...OF
INADVERTENTLY MOBILIZING THE
WRONG PEOPLE."
>> Reporter: BUSH WON OHIO BY
2%; A LOSS THERE WOULD HAVE COST
HIM THE PRESIDENCY.
IT WAS A LESSON THE UNDERDOG
BARACK OBAMA CAMPAIGN TOOK TO
HEART IN THE 2008 DEMOCRATIC
CONTEST.
>> YEAH, NECESSITY IS THE MOTHER
OF INVENTION.
>> Reporter: MICHAEL SIMON
HEADED BARACK OBAMA'S "TARGETING
AND ANALYTICS" TEAM IN 2008.
>> IN THAT CONTEST OF HILLARY
VERSUS BIDEN VERSUS OBAMA VERSUS
EDWARDS, ETCETERA, THERE WAS A
NEED TO DO SOMETHING FAIRLY
GROUNDBREAKING, BECAUSE THE
ELECTORAL PATHWAY FOR BARACK
OBAMA SIMPLY DIDN'T EXIST IF THE
ELECTORATE AS IT TYPICALLY WAS
CONFIGURED WAS GOING TO TURN
OUT.
SO, WHAT WE WERE REALLY TRYING
TO DO WAS TO BREAK DOWN THE
GEOGRAPHIC BARRIER.
AND ALL THESE DIFFERENT PIECES
OF SORT-OF DIGITAL FOOTPRINTS
THAT WE LEAVE BEHIND, THAT WERE
SOME TELLTALE SIGNS.
>> Reporter: THIS INFORMATION
MEANT, FOR EXAMPLE, THAT AN
OBAMA CANVASSER WOULD NOT GO TO
EVERY DOOR IN A NEIGHBORHOOD,
BUT GO ONLY TO THE DOORS WHERE
POTENTIAL SUPPORTERS LIVED, AND
WOULD GO WITH A MESSAGE SHAPED
TO THE INTERESTS OF THAT
POTENTIAL VOTER.
AND IN THE FALL, THE SAME
APPROACH THAT WORKED FOR GEORGE
BUSH IN OHIO FOUR YEARS EARLIER
PROVED CRITICAL FOR OBAMA IN AT
LEAST ONE BATTLEGROUND STATE.
>> ONE OF THE UNDERAPPRECIATED
REASONS WHY THEY WERE ABLE IN A
CYCLE TO TAKE A STATE LIKE
VIRGINIA, WHERE NO DEMOCRAT HAD
RUN A SERIOUS CAMPAIGN FOR THE
PRESIDENCY IN-- IN 30 YEARS--
AND MAKE IT COMPETITIVE WAS THAT
THEY SAID, "YEAH, THERE ARE A
LOT OF CONSERVATIVE COUNTIES
HERE WHERE A DEMOCRAT ONLY GETS
21% OF THE VOTE, BUT WE NOW HAVE
THE DATA TO FIGURE OUT HOW WE
CAN MAKE THAT 24% OF THE VOTE
JUST BY MOBILIZING A FEW MORE
PEOPLE."
>> Reporter: BY 2012, OBAMA'S
TEAM EMBEDDED ANALYTICS INTO
EVERY ASPECT OF THE RE-ELECTION
CAMPAIGN.
EVERYTHING FROM WHERE THE
CANDIDATES AND SPOUSES SHOULD
GO, TO WHAT KIND OF ADS SHOULD
RUN WHERE AND AT WHAT TIME, WAS
ROOTED IN MOUNTAINS OF DATA
WHICH ENABLED THE CAMPAIGN TO
TEST COMPETING MESSAGES
SCIENTIFICALLY.
>> SO I RANDOMLY ASSIGN, LET'S
SAY 10,000 PEOPLE INTO TWO
GROUPS.
ONE OF THEM GETS THE PIECE OF
MAIL THAT SAYS MARCO RUBIO'S TAX
PLAN WOULD RAISE TAXES ON MIDDLE
INCOME PEOPLE, AND 5,000 OF THEM
GET ONE THAT SAYS HE WOULD LOWER
TAXES ON RICH PEOPLE.
AND I SEE THAT, "WOW, ONE GROUP
OF PEOPLE NOW SUPPORTS RUBIO AT
A RATE THREE POINTS HIGHER THAN
THE OTHER."
>> Reporter: AND BECAUSE YOU
KNOW ABOUT THOSE 10,000 PEOPLE,
YOU CAN MAKE REASONABLE
ASSUMPTIONS ABOUT A FAR LARGER
PEOPLE YOU'VE NEVER POLLED.
>> YEAH, IT'S WHAT THEY CALL
"LOOK-ALIKE MODELING."
AND THEN YOU'RE GOING OUT AND
MAYBE UP TO 250 MILLION OTHER
AMERICAN ADULTS SAYING, "WHO ARE
THE PEOPLE WHO STATISTICALLY
RESEMBLE THEM, AND HOW MUCH DO
THEY RESEMBLE THE TYPE OF PERSON
WHOM I KNOW CARES ABOUT THIS OR
WILL VOTE THAT WAY?"
AND THEN YOU CAN GO OUT AND
PRIORITIZE AMONG THAT GROUP HOW
YOU WANT TO COMMUNICATE WITH
THEM.
>> Reporter: IN THE LAST TWO
PRESIDENTIAL CAMPAIGNS,
DEMOCRATS MORE SKILLFULLY
WIELDED THESE ANALYTIC TOOLS.
BUT IN 2016, BOTH SIDES APPEAR
TO BE WELL-ARMED.
AUDIENCE PARTNERS IS A FIRM IN
SUBURBAN PHILADELPHIA THAT
OFFERS TARGETED MESSAGING
LARGELY TO REPUBLICAN CLIENTS.
JEFF DITTUS, THE FIRM'S MANAGING
PARTNER, SAYS MICRO-TARGETING
WILL BE EVEN MORE PREVALENT THIS
TIME OUT.
>> THERE'S A GROUP OF FOLKS, AND
I SUSPECT IT'S MAYBE 35% OF THE
POPULATION, THAT YOU CANNOT
REACH WITH MASS MEDIA.
ALL THEY DO IS LOOK AT THEIR
PHONES AND THEIR COMPUTERS TO
GET NEWS.
AND SO I SEE IT AS A NECESSARY
THING FOR THE DEMOCRACY TO BE
ABLE TO PUSH MESSAGES AND REACH
THOSE PEOPLE, BECAUSE YOU CAN'T
REACH THEM ANY OTHER WAY TODAY.
>> Reporter: DITTUS SHOWED US
HOW HIS COMPANY USED THE VOTER
FILE IN CHRIS CHRISTIE'S 2013
RE-ELECTION CAMPAIGN FOR
GOVERNOR OF NEW JERSEY, A STATE
WITH SOME 5.4 MILLION VOTERS-TO
SPECIFICALLY TARGET REGISTERED
REPUBLICANS WITH A WEAK VOTING
RECORD.
>> SO I WOULD EXCLUDE THE PEOPLE
WHO LET'S JUST SAY IN 2009 WHO
DID SHOW UP.
AND NOW MY AUDIENCE IS DOWN TO
296,000 PEOPLE.
>> Reporter: OF COURSE, AS WITH
ANY NEW TECHNOLOGY, THERE'S A
DANGER OF OVERSTATING ITS POWER.
LYNN VAVREK TEACHES POLITICAL
SCIENCE AT UCLA.
>> I THINK THAT IF YOU HAVE THE
MONEY TO SPEND ON BUILDING AN
ANALYTICS SHOP AND SUSTAINING
IT, THEN YES, I THINK YOU WOULD
BE A LITTLE FOOLISH NOT TO USE
IT.
THE THING I THINK THAT IS
IMPORTANT TO REMEMBER IS THAT
THAT MAY BE THE ICING ON THE
CAKE THAT GETS YOU THAT 538TH
VOTE IN ONE COUNTY IN FLORIDA.
BUT YOU STILL NEED THE CAKE.
>> Reporter: IF ANALYTICS IS
OVERRATED, ONE CANDIDATE SEEMS
TO BE TESTING THAT IDEA.
G.O.P. FRONTRUNNER DONALD TRUMP
HAS APPARENTLY NO ANALYTICS
OPERATION AT ALL, RELYING
INSTEAD ON HIS CELEBRITY,
PERSONALITY AND MEDIA
APPEARANCES, AS WELL AS A
TORRENT OF TWEETS, TO DRIVE HIS
CAMPAIGN.
>> THE BIG STUFF IN CAMPAIGNS, I
THINK, IS NATIONAL CONTEXT.
WHAT'S GOING ON IN THE COUNTRY
RIGHT NOW?
WHAT'S THE STATE OF THE NATION'S
ECONOMY? WHO ARE THE CANDIDATES?
GIVEN THE STATE OF THE WORLD AND
WHO THEY ARE, HOW DO THEY TRY TO
BEAT ONE ANOTHER?
IF YOU KNOW THOSE THINGS, YOU
CAN GO A PRETTY LONG WAY TOWARD
HAVING A SENSE OF HOW A
PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION, AT LEAST,
IS GOING TO TURN OUT.
>> Reporter: EVEN FORMER OBAMA
ANALYTICS CHIEF MICHAEL SIMON
SAYS ANALYTICS ARE LESS
MEANINGFUL WHEN MORE BIG ISSUES
DOMINATE AN ELECTION, AS HUGE
DEMOCRATIC LOSSES IN THE 2010
AND 2014 MID-TERMS DEMONSTRATED.
>> IT'S GOING TO GET YOU A
COUPLE OF POINTS, AND IT'S GOING
TO HELP BUILD, YOU KNOW, A
ROBUST ORGANIZATION THAT CAN
HELP CARRY THE BALL OR THE
REMAINING FEW YARDS TO THE END
ZONE.
IT'S NOT GOING TO HELP BUTTRESS
AGAINST A TSUNAMI.
AND, YOU KNOW, WHEN THE MACRO-
FORCES ARE AS STACKED OR AS
LINED UP AS THEY WERE AGAINST
THE DEMOCRATS IN THOSE TWO
MIDTERMS, THERE'S ONLY SO MUCH
YOU CAN DO.
>> Sreenivasan: RUSSIAN
AIRSTRIKES IN SYRIA ARE BEING
BLAMED FOR THE DEATHS OF MORE
THAN 40 PEOPLE TODAY.
BODIES ARE STILL BEING PULLED
FROM THE RUBBLE AFTER BOMBS
STRUCK A MARKET, GOVERNMENT
BUILDINGS, AND HOMES IN THE
NORTHWEST SYRIAN CITY OF IDLIB.
THE SYRIAN OBSERVATORY FOR HUMAN
RIGHTS SAYS SYRIAN REBELS AND
CIVILIANS ARE AMONG THE
FATALITIES.
THE HUMAN RIGHTS GROUP SAYS
RUSSIAN AIRSTRIKES OVER THE PAST
THREE MONTHS HAVE KILLED MORE
THAN 400 CIVILIANS.
OVERALL, MORE THAN 200,000
PEOPLE HAVE DIED IN THE SYRIAN
CONFLICT DURING THE PAST FOUR-
AND A HALF YEARS.
BECAUSE OF THE DANGER, SOME
SYRIAN DOCTORS HAVE MOVED THEIR
HOSPITALS UNDERGROUND OR HAVE
REBUILT THEM IN MOUNTAINSIDES.
ITN'S RAGEH OMAAR HAS MORE.
>> DEEP BEHIND THE BLASTED FACE
OF THIS MOUNTAIN SIDE, THESE MEN
DRILL AND BUR ROW THEIR WAY
BENEATH THE STONE AND EARTH
BUILDING THIS, UNDERGROUND
HOSPITALS AND SURGICAL UNITS
WHERE SYRIAN DOCTORS, NURSES AND
PATIENTS HAVE BEEN FORCED TO
HIDE TO GET AWAY FROM CONSTANT
BOMBARDMENT.
THIS IS ONE OF THREE SUCH
HOSPITALS BUILT IN REBEL-HELD
NORTHERN SYRIA, TESTAMENT TO
WHAT THE WAR IN THIS COUNTRY HAS
COME TO.
THE REALITY IS MEDICAL WORKERS
AND THEIR CLINICS ARE NOW BEING
SPECIFICALLY TARGETED IN THIS
HORRIFIC WAR.
DR. DAVID KNOT HAS VOLUNTEERED
IN SYRIA.
HE'S A TRAUMA SURGEON IN A MAJOR
LONDON HOSPITAL.
THIS IS HIM OPERATING IN ALEPPO.
AND HE'S ALSO TREATED VICTIMS IN
ONE OF THE UNDERGROUND
FACILITIES.
>> I HEAR THAT PEOPLE NOW DON'T
WANT TO GO TO HOSPITALS BECAUSE
HOSPITALS ARE REALLY BEING
TARGETED.
TO TAKE OUT A HOSPITAL IS THE
WORST THING YOU CAN POSSIBLY DO.
AGAIN THE PROBLEM IS IT IS
HAPPENING.
>> LAST WEEKEND THE REBEL HELD
SUBURB OF DUMBA WAS HIT.
ALL AGES CAUGHT UP IN THE HORROR
AS WERE HEALTH WORKERS.
ONE OF THE BUILDINGS THAT WAS
TARGETED IS BELIEVED TO HAVE
BEEN A HOSPITAL.
AND DURING THE SAME WEEKEND,
THIS MAKE SHIFT THEYO NATIONAL
ALL CLINIC WAS ALSO BOMBED.
THIS WAS THE DAMAGE INSIDE.
>> IF YOU TAKE OUT A HOSPITAL,
YOU TAKE OUT A DOCTOR THEN YOU
WIN THE HEALTH OF IRAN, 10 TO
15,000 PEOPLE.
SO IT'S A WEAPON OF WAR.
SO WHERE THOSE PEOPLE GO, THEY
LEAVE.
>> BUT NO SOONER HAD THE
UNDERGROUND CLINICS BEEN
COMPLETED THEN THEY TOO ARE NOW
BEING SPECIFICALLY TARGETED.
THIS IS ONE WHICH CAME UNDER
BOMBARDMENT WHILE IF WAS BEING
USED.
POINTING TO THIS INJURED MAN.
THE DOCTOR APPEALS TO THE WORLD.
>> WHERE IS THE HUMAN RIGHTS, HE
ASKS.
INTERNATIONAL LAW IS CLEAR.
ALL MEDICAL FACILITIES AND
HEALTH WORKERS IN WAR ZONES ARE
PROTECTED UNDER THE GENEVA
CONVENTION.
THE DOCTOR HELPED BUILD THREE OF
THE HOSPITALS, CONSTRUCTED INTO
MOUNTAINSIDES.
DESPITE ALL SAFETY PROCEDURES
WE'RE TAKING, THOSE NEW MEDICAL
FACILITIES AND HOSPITALS ARE
ALSO BEING SHELLED DESPITE BEING
IN SAFE PLACES BECAUSE OF THE
DESTRUCTIVE POWER OF NEW
MISSILES BEING USED RECENTLY IN
SYRIA.
ONE OF THE CENTRAL REASONS WHY
MILLIONS OF SYRIANS HAVE FLED IS
BECAUSE THEY CAN'T FIND THE
HOSPITALS AND DOCTORS TO TREAT
THEM AT HOME.
MANY PEOPLE FEEL THAT UNLESS
SYRIA'S HEALTH-CARE SYSTEM IS
PROTECTED, THE MILLIONS WHO HAVE
FLED WILL HAVE LITTLE REASON TO
RETURN.
>>THIS IS PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND,
SUNDAY.
>> Sreenivasan: UNITED NATIONS-
BROKERED TALKS, IN SWITZERLAND,
FOR A CEASEFIRE IN YEMEN HAVE
CONCLUDED WITHOUT RESOLUTION.
BUT THE U.N. SPECIAL ENVOY SAID
THERE HAD BEEN PROGRESS ON
A FRAMEWORK FOR A FUTURE
AGREEMENT TO END THE CONFLICT
AND RELEASE PRISONERS ON BOTH
SIDES.
FIGHTING BETWEEN YEMEN'S
INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED
GOVERNMENT AND REBELS HAS GONE
ON FOR NINE MONTHS AND CAUSED
ALMOST 6,000 DEATHS, ACCORDING
TO THE U.N.
THE WARRING PARTIES AGREED TO
MEET AGAIN IN MID-JANUARY.
CHINESE RESCUE CREWS ARE
SEARCHING FOR NEARLY 60 PEOPLE
MISSING AFTER A LANDSLIDE IN AN
INDUSTRIAL PARK.
MORE THAN 30 BUILDINGS IN THE
SOUTHERN CHINA CITY OF SHENZHEN
WERE BURIED TODAY WHEN A PILE OF
SOIL AND DEBRIS FROM YEARS OF
CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS GAVE WAY.
HUNDREDS OF RESCUERS, SOME WITH
SNIFFER DOGS, COMBED THE SITE,
WHERE THE SOIL WAS AS DEEP AS 60
FEET
AT LEAST SEVEN PEOPLE WERE
RESCUED FROM THE RUBBLE.
IN INDIA, THE YOUNGEST OF SIX
PERPETRATORS OF A NOTORIOUS GANG
RAPE IN 2012 WAS RELEASED FROM
PRISON.
THE ATTACK OF A 23-YEAR-OLD
WOMAN HAPPENED ON A BUS AND THE
VICTIM LATER DIED.
PROTESTERS OF HIS RELEASE, LED
BY THE VICTIM'S PARENTS, MARCHED
IN INDIA'S CAPITAL OF DELHI
TODAY.
THE VICTIM'S MOTHER SAID, THE
GOVERNMENT SHOULD BE ASHAMED OF
ITSELF.
HER FATHER SAID INDIA'S
PARLIAMENT SHOULD PASS A LAW
ALLOWING SOME JUVENILES TO BE
TRIED AS ADULTS.
BOTH PARENTS WERE AMONG THOSE
ARRESTED WHEN POLICE BROKE UP
THE PROTEST.
THE MAN RELEASED WAS 17 WHEN THE
CRIME OCCURRED AND WAS GIVEN THE
MAXIMUM SENTENCE INDIA ALLOWS
FOR A JUVENILE-- THREE YEARS.
FOUR OLDER MEN CONVICTED IN THE
ATTACK RECEIVED DEATH SENTENCES
YET TO BE CARRIED OUT.
ANOTHER PERPETRATOR HANGED
HIMSELF IN PRISON.
DO YOU THINK POLITICAL CAMPAIGNS
SHOULD BE ABLE TO USE PERSONAL
DATA TO TARGET YOUR VOTE?
JOIN THE DEBATE ON OUR FACEBOOK
PAGE AT facebook.com/newshour.
>> Sreenivasan: THE LATEST
7th INSTALLMENT IN THE "STAR
WARS" SAGA IS BREAKING BOX
OFFICE RECORDS.
THE FORCE AWAKENS GROSSED HALF A
BILLION DOLLARS AT MOVIE
THEATERS THIS WEEKEND.
238 MILLION DOLLARS IN TICKETS
WERE SOLD IN THE UNITED STATES
ALONE, TOPPING JURASSIC WORLD,
WHICH MADE $208 MILLION IN ITS
OPENING WEEKEND ACROSS THE
COUNTRY THIS SUMMER.
DISNEY PLANS TO RELEASE SEVERAL
MORE "STAR WARS" FILMS.
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS NEWSHOUR WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR WATCHING.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT.